---
layout: post
title: 5 Oct 2022
---

Ouros casts Hold Monster on the dragon. The dragon is unaffected. Ouros flies towards Azaki.

Aos sneak attacks the dragon. He hits doing 46hp.

Purt slams the dragon. He misses. A second slam also misses.

Kaderoth picks up the Keoghtom’s ointment. He shoots three arrows at the dragon. One hits and does 12hp.

Azaki casts Eldritch Blast on the dragon and four rays shoot out. He hits with all four and does 47hp of force damage to the dragon.

Molonos is on the back of the dragon and swings three times with his Frost Brand. His first swing hits for 13hp. His second swing hits for 17hp. A third hits for 14hp. His offhand attack misses.

The dragon recharges his breath weapon. He then barrel rolls. Aos holds on easily. Purt aids Molonos to remain mounted. Purt is unaffected. The dragon lines himself up to target Ouros and Azaki. The breath weapon does 87hp to those that fail to save.

Ouros fails but has resistance to fire and takes 43hp. He is down to a single hit point at this stage. Azaki takes the full brunt of it however.

Thigrid flies to Kaderoth and touches him. This heals Kaderoth 25hp.

The dragon does a wing buffet attack on Molonos, Aos and Purt. Aos uses his uncanny dodge ability to take 9hp only. Purt is resistant and also takes 9hp. Molonos is fully affected and takes 19hp.

Ouros uses his metamagic to cast a distant Ray of Frost. He misses. Ouros exclaims expletively.

Aos sneak attacks again. He hits and does 37hp. *“Die you bastard from the deepest pit of the abyss!”*.

Purt slams the dragon twice. He misses each time. Purt’s air elemental form tried to curse like a rapid sailor but it comes out like a limp wheeze.

The dragon swings it tail and targets Purt. Purt takes 10hp from the hit because he is resistant to bludgeoning.

Kaderoth shoots three rows at the dragon. All three miss. Kaderoth looses his rag and kicks a nearby rock and takes a single hit point from a stubbed toe. It heals within a minute or so so no real harm done.

Azaki casts Eldritch Blast and four force rays fly to the dragon. Three hit doing 30hp in total. Azaki beams and contemplates dragon steaks for dinner.

Molonos swings his Frost Brand three times. Only one hits and it does a measly 9hp. An offhand swing of his Flame Tongue does only 6hp due to the beasts immunity to fire. Molonos is beside himself with disgust. It’s a freaking Frost Brand for the gods sake.

The dragon didn’t recharge his breath weapon. This time.

The dragon attacks Purt with two claws and a bite. The bite does 35hp and both claws do 40hp. Purt remains an air elemental but has only a few hps left in that form. Purt himself is a tad miffed at this stage. At the very least a leaflet campaign is being seriously considered. Purt’s fire shield does 40hp to the dragon in recoil.

Thigrid cures Kaderoth and gets back 29hp.

Ouros casts Ray of Frost but misses the dragon. Cursing like a drunk trooper, Ouros drags himself and Azaki towards Thigrid.

Aos attempts a sneak attack and despite excellent prospects, misses. Uncharacteristicly, Aos utters a single “fuck”.

Purt as a bonus action, burns a spells slots to heal 18hp. He then slams the dragon twice but misses each time. Despair sets in and Purt seeks the air elemental’s navel but is then doubly disappointed.

The dragon does a wing buffet to attempt to dislodge the three party members on its back. Purt takes 10hp because of his resistance to bludgeoning. The dragon takes 9hp from Purt’s fire shield. Aos is unaffected. Molonos takes the full brunt of 20hp and is knocked prone. The dragon moves 40’ towards Azaki and Ouros. Purt takes an opportunity attack but misses.

Despite the vacuum of space, Purt’s “damn and blast” is heard by all air elementals with three parsecs.

Kaderoth shoots three arrows into the creature. Three hits, one critical, does a total of 46hp. The very last arrow fells the creature. The corpse of the dragon starts tumbling towards the planet. Kaderoth. Is speechless. Utterly speechless. For all of two seconds. Then he won’t fucking shut up about his he, single-handedly, slew an ancient red dragon.

With a sigh of relief that would shake the shake your very bones, Aos and Molonos jump off the body of the dragon. Purt in air elemental form, Thigrid with his cape, and Ouros with his dragon wings ferry the party members back to Stardock.

The githyanki reinforce the area round the landing back on Stardock.

Thigrid takes 10 minutes to do a Prayer of Healing and everyone except Thigrid regains 29hp.

Azaki consumes a potion of greater healing and regains 14hp.

Kaderoth applies four does of Keoghtom’s ointment and regains 43hp.

Azaki gives four does of Keoghtom’s ointment to Ouros who applies them immediately. He regains 45hp.

Thigrid give Ouros and Azaki a potion of greater healing. Ouros quaffs it and regains 12hp. Azaki regains 16hp.

When the party have dealt with there own healing, the head githyanki honcho in Stardock is about to say something nice when a messenger grabs him and whispers something dread in his ear. His face drops and his demeanor changes to something more akin to one who is trapped and doomed.

We ask the githyanki for their healing aid. They send us inside Stardock. There, there is a panicking group gathered around the head honcho. He tells us that the nautiloid ship is engaging directly with Stardock. It is about the size of Stardock itself.

We are told that the nautiloid ship is currently 30 rounds away. It shoots out hefty missiles that torpedoes at the skiffs. They also launch grenades that explode in a strange nastiness.

We ask for seven spell casters that can cast Dimension Door.

We board skiffs and head for the nautiloid. Fifteen skiffs leave Stardock in the flotilla. Each skiff holds nine including a pilot.

The party occupy two skiffs and each party member is accompanied by a githyanki spell caster that can cast Dimension Door.

The other skiffs are full of fighter types both githyanki and githzerai. Four young red dragons with githyanki riders accompany the skiffs. Their jobs is to draw fire and take out as many torpedoes and grenades that are launched against the skiffs.

The remainder of the Stardock population defend the asteroid.

The Stardock defenders activate their crystal golems.
