---
layout: post
title: 9 Nov 2022
---

# 9 Nov 2022

The party, as a whole, gain inspiration.

Molonos shakes off his stun.

Kaderoth shoots at the mind flayer beside Ouros. He hits with three arrows doing 36hp.

The mind flayer beside Ouros does a tentacle attack against Kaderoth. He does 18hp psychic to Kaderoth who is rendered unconscious. The mind flayers tentacles wrap Kaderoth’s head.

Aos rushes forward and sneak attacks the mind flayer grappling Kaderoth. The mind flayer is destroyed.

Purt casts Thunderclap and does 15hp to all beside him. The big flayer and two of the kuatoa all take full effect.

Purt does Hidden Step and moves to the south of Ouros.

Ouros is stabilised but remains prone and incapacitated.

The elder brain moves 5’ and attacks Purt with a real long tentacle. Purt takes 21hp bludgeoning and 10hp psychic. Purt is also grappled by the tactic.

Azaki uses his inspiration to attempt to shake off his stun. He succeeds.

The kuatoa nearest the brain casts Spirit Guardians. None of the party are within its perimeter.

The kuatoa in front of Ouros uses its pincer staff to attack Purt. It hits and does 7hp. It grapples Purt with the staff.

The distant kuatoa quickly casts and a shimmering field of force surrounds him. He double moves towards Purt.

The kuatoa beside Kaderoth also attacks Purt but misses.

The kuatoa beside the brain casts an a field of force surround him. He moves towards Aos and does a bite and a pincer attack but misses with both.

Thigrid casts off his stun.

The tall mind flayer moves adjacent to Aos and attacks him with tentacles. He completely misses however.

Molonos moves to the tall mind flayer and lays into him. He does a menacing attack and hits doing 19hp. The mind flayer dies.

Molonos retargets the nearest kuatoa and does 17hp. Another swing drops that kuatoa. Molonos moves to the next kuatoa and swings but misses. Molonos takes an action surge and hits the nearest kuatoa which kills it. Molonos advances one more step and swings at the next kuatoa and hits and does 16hp. Molonos final swing misses.

Kaderoth fails a death save.

Aos moves to the nearest kuatoa and obliterates it.

Purt casts cure wounds and Ouros regains 17hp.

The nearest kuatoa is on fire and takes 9hp.

Ouros casts firebolt twinned at the two remaining kuatoa. The one nearest Ouros is hit for 31hp. The twinned bolt hit the kuatoa beside the brain. This kuatoa is killed. The Spirit Guardians dissipate.

The brain regenerates his Mind Blast. The brain issues a Mind Blast.

Purt saves. Azaki saves. Molonos fails and takes 35hp and is stunned. Ouros also succumbs but is stabilised by his ghost lantern.

Azaki moves to the bottom of the stairs and targets the brain with Cone of Cold. The brain takes 41hp we feel.

The last remaining kuatoa steps towards Aos. He is on fire and he takes 6hp. He hits Aos with a bite and does 4hp.

Thigrid moves his spiritual weapon closer to the brain. He then casts Mass Heal. He distributes 700hp to us all. Most are restored to about 75% or so of max.

Molonos fails to cast off his stun.

Kaderoth has retribution on his mind and targets the one remaining kuatoa, his first arrow misses. His second kills the kuatoa. His third arrow hits the brain for 13hp.

Aos launches a sneak attack at the brain. He hits and does 42hp of piercing damage.

The tentacles of the brains wriggle in a distressed kind of way,

Purt casts Frostbite at the brain. It takes 20hp and has disadvantage on any subsequent weapon attack.

Ouros casts Firebolt at the brain and does 24hp of fire damage.

The brain casts a spell and Azaki fails to save. Azaki is dominated and turns to Thigrid and casts Power Word Stun at him. It has no effect.

Thigrid as a bonus climb moves his spiritual weapon to engage the brain. The spiritual weapon swings at the brain and hits for 19hp. Thigrid then casts spirit guardians to encompass the brain.

Thigrid donates his inspiration to Molonos. Molonos nevertheless remains stunned.

Kaderoth attacks the brain with arrows. He hits with three arrows and does 35hp of piercing damage. The brains starts to collapse in on itself results. A horrible wave of psychic energy erupts from the dying form of the brain. All within range take 42hp of backlash psychic damage. With this wave of energy comes the memories, thoughts and impression are flung into our brains. Two of these coalesce into thoughts and images one of which is a vision of a group of mind flayers carrying a gem that is the size of a githyanki's head and sculpted to look like one, they are carrying it through a gate into a crystalline maze with winds blowing in every direction. We get the sense that this is the plane of Pandemonium. The need to stop this is strongly felt. We also sense a nautiloid transitioning through space through another planar transition arriving at a horizontal torus place and crashing down near a lake. We feel this is the domain of the eldest brain.

We are momentarily stunned by this backlash but ultimately no longer affected.

We eliminate the contents of the pools with fire.

The nautiloid stops and hangs dead in space.

We go up on deck and signal to the skiffs. The gith joins us. They rope up the nautiloid. The remaining illithis craft are in rout.

The gith bring us back to Stardock to much adulation. They tell us of the vision we all felt. They tell us that a small group of illithids infiltrated Stardock and traversed a gate in Stardock.

We return to our Stardock quarters and take a long rest.

<p style="font-weight: bold;">We advance to 19th level.</p>

We discuss the visions we shared with the githyanki. The torus place they say is the place of their nightmares, a place called Penumbra which is the ancient home world of the illithid.

They fill us in on everything that know about Penumbra.

When the old empire of the illithid held sway they controlled everything that he access to the astral plane. They did this through their thralls, just like the kuatoa we met on the nautiloid. The Gith were one people at that time and were saved by one of their own becoming strong enough to resist the mental power of the illithid. This led to the sundering of the Gith races.

When they realised that they could through extreme mental effort thrown off the bonds of thraldom, they went of a killing spree of illithid killing. Whole illuthid worlds were destroyed. They never found the illithid home world however. They never found a way to get there.

Purt asks Thigrid to craft him the needed ingredients to cast Hero’s Feast.

Purt sets up Hero’s Feast and enhance ability and foresight on Aos for the next morning.

Because of Hero’s Feast everyone get 12 temporary hit points.

We move to the gate within Stardock that goes to Pandemonium. The gith have the means to determine where Penumbra may be located in the planar realms.

The Gith equip us with potions of extra healing, two each.

The Gith cast three shield spells into Purt's Ioun stone.

The Gith confer and conclude a group of mind flayers were working feverishly on the problem of the Gith being collectively present and focused on defeating the illithid. They have created an artefact that will neutralise the Gith psionically. The Gith fear that should this artifact be activated they will never regain their psionic ability. The artifact is a flawless diamond in the shape and size of a githyanki head. They need to expose it to the chaos of the Far Realm.

The gith believe the mind flayers have discovered a gate to the Far Realm in the plane of Pandemonium. The gith are of a mind that the gith are in the best place to counter the worst of the illithid. They ask us to stop the illithid using the artefact, which they call the gith capacitor.

We request the Gith equip ourselves to deal with the worst that Pandemonium can throw at us and head for the gate. They provide a tuning fork to cit the the gate. They give us a reliquary which contains a shard of the githzerai Zerthamon’s bones.

This will show us the way to the gith capacitor. This will tell us how close the device is from being fully charged by its presence in the Far Realm.

We ask the for everything they have that can help us succeed.

They give us things that attach to our skin which will allow our fellows smash it. This will force a separation from any stun that effects the wearer. The damage from this will be the maximum of what caused the stun in the first place. We all take one. We call these psychic breaks.

We head to the gate.
